# Introduction 

In this workshop, we develop a simple algorithm to generate a hand mesh from a given image. First, we provide an introduction to parametric models for human body and hand. These models encapsulates the shape and pose of human body and hands and can be customized to any shape and size. We use SMPL for body and MANO for hands. Next we show how to generate 2d and 3d hand keypoints from an image using mediapipe library. Finally, we show how to generate parameters for mano hand model from the keypoints generated by mediapipe. The mano parameters can then be used to rig and visualize a hand mesh. We also show a demo of a real time application for hand mesh generation.

# Pre-requisites (To be done prior to workshop)

Please ensure the following are completed before attending the workshop

## Google Colab Set up

1) Log in to drive.google.com
2) Create a folder titled "YourPreferredFolderName" and copy the .ipynb files and Fitter3D folder into this location
3) Double click the ipynb file in the google drive to open in Google Colab

## Download the models

### SMPL model
1) Create an account at "https://smpl.is.tue.mpg.de/" and agree to license conditions
2) Download version 1.1.0 for Python 2.7 (female/male/neutral, 300 shape PCs) under Downloads section
3) Copy /SMPL_python_v.1.1.0/SMPL_python_v.1.1.0/smpl/models/basicmodel_neutral_lbs_10_207_0_v1.1.0 into "YourPreferredFolderName"
4) Change the name of the model file to 'SMPL_NEUTRAL.pkl'

### MANO model
1) Create an account at https://mano.is.tue.mpg.de/ and agree to the license
2) Download the model from the "Models & Code" link under downloads
3) Copy MANO_LEFT.pkl and MANO_RIGHT.pkl into "YourPreferredFolderName"
4) Also copy all the files from the downloaded mano folder to Fitter3d/thirdparty/mano
5) You should comment out the print 'FINITO' (last line) statement in thirdparty/mano/webuser/smpl_handpca_wrapper_HAND_only.py. MPI license does not allow re-distribution of their MANO code.

# Workshop Contents

## Demo 1: Introduction to Parametric models

In this hands-on tutorial, we provide an introduction to smpl and mano models. This tutorial will show how to load, visualize and manipulate these models. The code is available in demo_smplx_mano.ipynb

## Demo 2: Hand Mesh Generation

In this hands-on tutorial, we show how to use mediapipe library to generate 2d and 3d hand keypoints and how to obtain mano parameters using an optimization library named chumpy. The code is available in HandMeshBasic.ipynb

## Demo 3: Real time hand mesh generation

In this demonstration, we show a real time application for generating hand mesh from a web cam. We use a fast 3d keypoint generation method and an analytical inverse kinematics method for this.
